All right, next up, we're going to learn another way to compare two strings this time, though, instead
of comparing two strings to determine which one comes first alphabetically.
We're going to compare two strings just to determine if they are equivalent in values.
OK, so again, we'll clear this out.
Oops.
And let's see.
So we'll create two strings first text and we'll start with something straightforward like Apple and
oops!
Second text and we'll do the same thing again, Apple and Apple.
And then we'll do this and we'll say first string dot.
Content equals.
Second, text, OK, so this method also returns a Boolean that is to say that it returns a true false
yes, no on off type of thing as opposed to returning text or numbers.
All right.
So this method returns a Boolean.
And what it does is it tells us whether or not the string that the method is on has the same text value
as the second string here.
OK, so if we run this?
OK, and we get a true, you know, I should take this moment to point out something, and I'm sorry
that if this wasn't clear for everyone, we're seeing the word true here.
But that's just the string representation of the output of this method.
So in fact, I could capture the output of this method in a variable by doing a command option or command
alt for Windows users.
The four variable.
OK.
And I don't know.
I'll just call it result.
So I just want you to notice here the output of this method and all of the other Boolean methods that
we have looked at so far.
Those methods that return a Boolean, they return a Boolean, not text.
However, when we take this, this Boolean result, which I am now storing in a variable here and we
print that out, it prints the English words true or false, but that's not actually what's inside of
this variable.
It's not a string.
OK.
The reason it prints true or false is because this print line method here is actually translating the
Boolean to text.
And the way it's doing that is that the print line method is actually what we call overloaded, which
means that there are many variations of this print line method.
The particular version of print line that is being used in this case is one that is expecting to receive
a Boolean.
And so really quickly, I'll just dig into this a little bit just to give you a little bit of insight
here.
So if we dig into that print line method, it looks like it's doing a lot of things.
But the main thing to note is this bit right here, where the print line method is delegating down to
a simpler print method that receives a Boolean.
And then if we dig into that method, we will see that this in turn, calls a write method and it takes
our Boolean value and converts it into a string by calling string value of now.
This value of method here is also expecting a Boolean as input.
So there are many variations of this value of method as well.
But if we dig into this particular one that accepts a Boolean, then we see that it is using what is
called a unitary operator.
And all that means is that it tests whether or not this boolean that we've passed in is true or not.
If this Boolean is true, then this unitary operator expression is returning a string of true.
Otherwise it returns a false, a string of false.
And that's how all of this is working.
So I'm not showing you all of this to confuse you.
I'm just showing this to you, just to shed a little bit more light into what's actually being stored
all the way back here.
Inside of this Boolean, it really is a boolean.
There is no text here.
The text translation is happening as an indirect result of the print line method.
All right, sorry for that tangent, but kind of an important one in case anybody was kind of wondering
how come they keep seeing the text there?
That's not what's really coming out of this method.
OK.
So anyway, yeah, we got this word true out of the result here, because the these the contents of
these two variables are equal.
OK, so I'm going to undo this and and put this bit back in here and I'm going to use a refactoring
to do that, which is called inline.
So inline will take a variable and it will take whatever code was used to create the value of that variable
and it will get rid of the variable and just replace the variable with the original thing.
So in other words, we we selected all of this and then create extracted a variable out of it.
And that's what this is.
We can go the other way.
We can get rid of this variable and just replace it all with this with an inline.
OK, so I will put my cursor on the variable and then I will do an inline with command option or command
alt and in like Nancy.
But here it stands for inline, even though the word in line starts with an eye.
OK, and then the ID asks me, Do I want to inline all the references and remove that variable for in
this case, there's only one reference.
So yeah, that's fine.
All right.
So see what that did there.
It just replaced the variable.
It got rid of the variable entirely.
And now I'm back to pretty much what I had before.
Minus this extra line there.
OK, now I'm going to replace this content equals with another method that does seemingly the same thing
and that is simply just equals.
So let's run this and see what we get.
OK, we get the same thing.
We get true again.
So then you should be wondering, OK, what's the difference between the equals in the equals contents
or equal contents methods?
And the the difference is an interesting one.
This equals method does more or less the same thing.
However, it is a little more strict in what it's looking for.
This equals method will only allow you to compare two strings.
OK, so not only do the contents of the two strings have to match, but they have to both be strings.
However, the content equals method.
Is quite a bit more flexible.
It doesn't actually just compare to strings, it can compare a character sequence.
I mean, let me show you what I mean by that.
So for the second text, I'm going to make this actually a string buffer.
And we learned a little bit about the string buffer, although I told you that generally speaking,
if you wanted to append lots of text more than two or three together, you should use a string builder.
But for right now, I'm going to use a string buffer and I'm going to use it in this way.
New string buffer.
OK, so I've initialized the string buffer with the text of Apple here.
All right, so note string buffer is not the same thing as a string, though they are kind of related.
A string buffer can hold string information, right, and a string certainly can hold string or text
information, but they're not the same data type there.
They are different types.
However, the content equals method will accept or work on either.
And the reason for that is because both the string and the string buffer have something in common.
Not only is the string class A string, it is also a character sequence.
And not only is the string buffer class a string buffer, it also is a character sequence.
So we haven't learned how this could be the case yet, but it's sort of related to if you recall in
the code where we had a pet and then we had cat and dog, cat was its own class, dog was its own class,
but cat and dog were also simultaneously both pets.
OK, now in that case, cat and dog were both pets because they both inherited from the same super class
of pet.
In this particular case, string and string buffer do not both inherit from the class of character sequence.
They are both character sequences for another reason that we'll get into when we get into slightly more
advanced, object oriented things.
But just know that string and string buffer both have something in common with each other, and that
is that they are both also character sequences, and there are a few other classes that are also.
In fact, there are a lot of other classes that are also considered character sequences, and any of
those classes are permissible to be used with the content equals method.
So let's go ahead and run this real quick, and we will see that we still get a true here, even though
we're now comparing two objects that are seemingly of a different type.
OK.
So it's kind of like this content equals method is almost kind of ignoring the fact that these two objects
are seemingly of different types, and it's getting down to the essence of what it is that we want to
compare, which is the contents of these two objects, right?
This bit here, that bit there.
So basically, we're saying the content equals method is saying, I don't care what the data type seems
to be.
I just want to get right down to the gist of, Hey, there's text in here and there's text in here.
Are those two content equal or not?
And that's exactly what this method is doing now, just for grins.
I'm going to show you that if I put my cursor right here on the content equals inside of the content
equals method, you know, to the right of the parentheses here, and I do a command p on Mac or control
people on Windows and Linux.
And I can confirm again what versions of this method there are.
There are two versions.
There's one that takes a string buffer and then there's something that takes a character sequence.
Now, if I wanted to know, well, what more about a character sequence and what that is, I can do
a command o and then type in cat rc q character sequence to narrow that down.
And then I can go to that class by hitting enter.
Now I see here that the character sequence is what's called an interface that's sort of like a class.
It's sort of like an empty shell of a class, and that tells me that there are going to be a bunch of
classes that sort of kind of are relatives of this character sequence.
And if I want to know what all of those classes are, I can come over here to this thing here.
This little icon is telling me, if I click on that, it'll show me all of the classes that implement.
And that's the term we use here.
This class of character sequence.
So I want to see what are all the types of classes that are related to the character sequence.
So I just clicked on that and now I can see the whole entire list.
So let's see what's here just to get a little bit of an idea.
So string character buffer, string builder, string buffer, string, a bunch of other things.
OK.
So that tells me that I could use instances or objects of any of these types with the content equals
method and all of them would work.
OK.
So I just used a string buffer, but I could also use the string builder and let's just try that real
quick.
So I'm going to close this.
I'm going to change this to string builder string.
Builder.
And I have to change it over here as well.
OK.
And then I'm going to run this again and look at that, I still get a true.
All right.
Now, in case you think this is some kind of a trick or whatever where we're just always getting true,
I'm going to change this to something that is totally not related to a string or a character sequence.
And we'll see what happens when I do that.
So if I change this to mean changes to something drastically different.
Now I'm having to import this class, and I need to change this over here as well.
OK, so now that I'm using something that is totally, totally not a character sequence at all, notice
down here I get this red squiggly line and that's this telling me if I hover over it cannot resolve
method content equals Java ISO file.
And so what that's the thing is there is no content equals method that accepts as input something of
type file.
OK.
It doesn't know what to do with that.
That's an error.
This code won't even compile if I try that.
OK.
So that's what would happen if you tried to use something that it doesn't understand or accept.
I'm going to undo that.
OK.
And like I said, there are cases where you'll just want to compare two strings and make sure that they
really are the same and by the same, I mean, their contents, character by character are the same.
And so, yeah, I think this will wrap up this lesson and I will see you in the next one.